Hi friends, welcome to shell scripting course.
Let me provide the course overview before going to start our shell scripting Corps.
C.
In our Unix world,
shells skipping is a great way to automate
repetitive tasks so that we can say our valuable time.
Then what is a shell script?
In simple terms, shell script is a sequence of system commands pasted in a text file.
So why we need to place our commands in a text file?
Or why well-integrated shell script simply to automate repeated to task or tasks.
Now let me provide a very simple example to understand the uses of shells.
Just assume that on my host or have a web server called HTTPD.
And with this HTTPD,
or have a small requirement in my day-to-day life.
That is, every day,
I need to find what is the version of HTTP and what is the current status of HTTPD?
And then what is the port used by HTTPD?
Then how we can get the information generally with the help of some commands.
Now let me try with the commands.
So the very first command,
I am using HTTPD hyphen v,
so that you are getting the version for your web server that is two dot four or 41,
then I am using some system CTL status,
HTTPD, so that I'm getting the current status of your HTTPD that is inactive.
That means it is not up and running.
Then to get my port,
I mean heterogeneity port number.
I am using a configuration file details.
So under ADC we how HTTPD,
the index, we have conflict then configurations when
actually this is a default location for configuration file of HTTPD.
Then from this with the help of regular expression,
I'm searching with ease and verb so that I'm getting port number.
So you are getting
the required information for your HTTPD with the help of three commands.
If this task is repeated two,
then why should we type you are three commands again and again on your command line.
Instead of that, what we will do is simply we will pay so these three commands in a file.
And we can run that so that we can get our required information for our HTTPD.
Now let me open a very simple file.
So here I am writing file name as HTTPD info
dot SH simply I'm giving dot SH extension to know that that is a shell script.
And the very first thing I am writing bin bash,
don't worry about that line.
That is actually shebang line will discuss in detail about shebang line in our course.
Now let me provide you were three and the very first command to get version,
then to get the status of HTTPD.
That's fine.
Now let me provide exclusion permission for this. Now I'm running that.
Yes, you are getting your required information now with the help of a single file,
instead of running three commands,
you are running only one file so that you are getting your Abaci version,
the status, and then port number.
So what we did simply we pasted our commands in a text file.
Of course that texting while we are calling it as a shell script.
And we're providing extension for that as SH.
That's fine. Now.
Simply, we are pasting our commands in
your file and we are getting the required information.
But my requirement is,
I don't want to get my output in this way.
Server version Apache slash
some parentheses and server build something like that simply I want to get to
dot-dot-dot 4-1 is Apache version and
the current status of Apache is inactive and the port number is 80.
I don't want to get the remaining lines on the remaining words.
Then.
We how to enhance our shell script.
Now we can enhance our shells to it by using the concepts like variables,
filters, conditional statements, loops,
functions, and many more.
Now let me take some of them so that I can enhance our Shell step.
So what I'm doing here,
see that actually I am getting the work done in this way.
But I want to enhance that.
I want to get only two dot-dot-dot 4-1.
So for that, don't worry about all these things will discuss in detail.
Simply, I am using a WK command here.
And I'm getting parenthesis has.
Alright, let me remove them.
Now.
Let me take this command.
Let me open up our shell script.
And here I am using a variable and that variable,
I'm going to store my command result, HUD PD version.
The same way.
For second comment also,
I want to modify status HTTPD, right?
So here I want to get only enact to.
So what I am doing a simply first-time gripping with activity.
Then here again, I'm using AWPA command.
So based on situation you can use,
you can use either a WK or cut command, our sed command.
So currently I'm using a WK command,
will discuss in detail about AW case,
sed and grep, and cut as well.
Now let me take that check.
Now let me copy this command and this result.
I'm opening a shell script.
So HTTPD status.
So I am storing into this the same way.
You are lost to command.
So you already, we have our last command and that is,
I mean, to get the port number.
Let me take that, this one.
So here I want only the port number that is 80.
So simply I am using a W k,
then I'm getting that port.
So simply I'm copying this command.
Let me open again.
You are shell script. So here
I am taking one more variable called HTTPD port.
Then.
So after finding all these result,
simply I am displaying the result like the HTTPD, what sin is.
So simply here, I'm displaying the HTTP version.
Then I am writing the current status of HTTPD.
Just I'm decorating, I'm enhancing Michelle's trip by using some concepts.
So here I used variables concept and also some filters concept.
Then port for HTTPD.
Anyway, we got this from configuration file.
Of course, you can also get from running a service by netstat command. We can get that.
Let me save it.
So this is our shell script.
Now.
We enhance it that now let me run our shell script and see the result.
Let's see now we got our required exact output.
You are not getting any unwanted lines in the output.
The reason is we enhanced
our shell script C. If you want to write any effect to shell script,
you have to know these mini concepts along with your commands.
Anyway.
Commands is the minimum requirement to write shell script.
But if you want to announce,
you ought to know the other concept like variables,
fetus, conditional statements, loops, and functions.
Fine.
See whenever if you run any command or shell script
on your command line that will reach to your operating system.
On your operating system will react on
the given instruction with the help of a program called shell.
And in our Unix world we have different types of shells.
You can use any one of the shell to exclude your command or shell script.
And if you want to know how many shells or there are
different types of shells present on your operating system.
Simply you can run this command,
slash, ETC slash shells.
And if you observe here on my operating system how these many shells,
among all those shells,
bash is the advanced and latest version.
And nowadays, the default shell for most of the Unix-like systems ease back.
That's the reason. From now onwards,
we are going to learn our course as Bash shell scripting.
Say compared to your remaining shells,
bash is the advanced one.
That's the reason we are learning Bash shell scripting.
But there is no much difference between your other shells and with bash,
almost all same but the thing is batch will have some advanced features.
That's it.
And one more thing. By default,
most of the operating systems in your Unix world or coming.
Bash has that default shell.
Now on what operating system are only worth ten.
What is the Shell sign for your terminal?
If you want to know that simply run which dollar shell so that it will do the,
the default shell which is assigned to
your terminal to run your commands or to run neighbor shell script.
That's it.
So finally, our courses Bash shell scripting.
And this is the advance to one. That's fine.
Now in my entire course,
what are the concepts I'm going to cover?
So these are the concepts I'm going to cover in my entire course.
That's it.
See, along with this,
we are also providing some Enriquez and practice on each and every topic.
Okay, finally, who can take the course?
See any Unix or Linux system,
admin or Unix or Linux user can take
this course along with that middleware admin, database, admin,
DevOps, admin, cloud admin or software dollar per those who are working on,
on Unix world, they can take these scores. Okay, thank you.